short while ago I spoke with our
correspondent Ben fulan in Jerusalem I
asked him what Israel has been saying
about the strike in the middle of that
crowded jabalia refugee
camp Terry Israel is justifying this by
saying that it has knocked out one of
the key Hamas commanders uh the
commander who is said to have prepared
and also executed the October 7 attacks
uh hamus denies that any uh senior
official was in the camp at the time of
this air strike uh it also justifies
this by saying that dozens of combatants
were killed in the same tunnels that
collapsed under the air strikes um the
IDF uh gave out that statement earlier
um saying that many reports of Civilian
deaths were a result of this attack now
we're not getting exact numbers from
them the numbers we're getting from the
Palestinian health Ministry in the
control Gaza Strip is uh somewhere
around 50 Palestinians they don't uh
usually um say whether or not these are
civilians or combatants in this case uh
150 wounded humus itself interestingly
enough is saying 400 Dead uh so huge
discrepancies here and you can really
tell um for the first time when we had
this Hospital blast uh just recently the
Al Ali Hospital uh there were real
doubts about whether or not the health
Ministry in controlled Gaza was giving
accurate numbers because they came out
so quickly after the attack um in past
conflicts they have been known to line
up with Israeli estimates um in this
case today what we're hearing is a huge
discrepancy between Hamas and the health
Ministry in Gaza um and what this is all
really showing is that this is becoming
an information War
and that was DW's Ben fulan in Jerusalem
now the Israeli military is pushing
deeper into Gaza they say they've
destroyed hundreds of militant Targets
in recent days and are also engaged in
Fierce hand-to-hand combat with
Hamas the Israel Defense Forces released
footage they say shows its ground troops
operating inside the Gaza Strip while
the IDF doesn't reveal the location of
its forces locals report seeing tanks in
Gaza City and on the road between
between the North and South of The
Enclave the Israeli Army reports killing
dozens of Hamas militants in Fierce
Close Quarters combat with some of the
fighting taking place inside the vast
tunnel complex where Hamas is believed
to be holding 240
hostages rescuing the hostages is one of
Israel's stated objectives in Gaza the
other is to wipe out Hamas on the ground
and from the
skies this video also from the IDF
proport reportedly shows the air strike
that killed a senior Hamas Commander
said to be involved in directing the
October 7
attacks Israel claims its air strikes
are targeting militants and Military
infrastructure the Hamas run Health
Ministry of Gaza says the attacks have
killed over 8,000 civilians the high
death toll has led to international
calls for a ceasefire calls that Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
dismissed he says Israel's forces will
not stop until Hamas is no longer able
to govern Gaza or threaten Israel
again let's bring in Frank ledwich here
he's a senior lecturer in strategic
studies at Portsmouth University and a
former UK Military Intelligence officer
he joins us from Oxford Frank I want to
first ask you about that strike by the
Israeli military on a Target in the
jalila uh refugee camp what do you make
of that given the high number of
casualties uh what do you make of of
Israel's justification for that strike
Frank
well good morning Terry there's no doubt
at all that this was a high value Target
and as such serious consideration will
have been given and deliberate
consideration to whether the Damage Done
to Hamas would be justified by the uh
excess it would be excessive Damage Done
to civilians would be excessive in
relation to the military Target and as I
said this was a high value Target so
this would have been deliberately
considered it's also worth bearing in
mind of course as he is say that
civilian casualties are are a natural
and predictable consequence as they
would say and I think they're right of
of hamas's
strategy so the question to be asked is
is is the Damage Done to civilians
excessive and that is something I think
which we don't yet know particularly in
view of what Ben said concerning the
varying casualty
estimates now many countries Frank as
you know expressed their outrage at the
cost to civilian lives in Gaza as Israel
continues its campaign to wipe out Hamas
uh could that outrage not translate into
an even bigger security risk for Israel
in the short and long
term I I think it could it was pointed
out I think by several people many
people at the outset of these operations
and indeed on the 7th of October and
shortly afterwards that Israel may be
walking into a trap they would say it's
a trap into which they have to walk and
trap Ben put his finger on it before is
connected very closely with this
information war that is going on and
Israeli commanders are more than
cognizant of that I've no doubt at all
there's a lot of pressure from them from
their own political leaders and on
netanyahu's war cabinet there's a huge
amount of pressure coming down from the
US that will filter down to the
operational level
because and the message will be every
Palestinian civilian you kill is a
strike against us and that all plays
into this information War but Israel has
little choice they would say we have to
walk into this political trap we have to
understand that civilians are a weapon
of Hamas and we have to act accordingly
one would question what their choice is
uh and then we can get into discussions
of ceas fires that out with out with
this but all this is part of an
information War it's an information trap
essentially into which Israel has to
walk Gaza has again been plunged into a
Communications and internet blackout
Frank do you know if that's been
instigated by Israel to support its
strategic objectives or is that just a
consequence of the destroyed
infrastructure well tell the answer to
your questions I don't know I'm not sure
anyone does however it would be natural
proper and normal for Israel to try and
cut the connective tissues of its enemy
Russian said that to ukrainians
ukrainians would love to do it to the
Russians Communications are what holds
holds a cohesive unit together and cyber
Communications or internet
communications of course are one key
element Hamas will have others they'll
have redundancy in the tunnels they'll
have telephones they'll have radios even
which also be attacked I think by
Israeli electronic counter measures but
I would suspect this is a deliberate uh
cyber uh cyber assault by by the
Israelis to remove that or at least to
damage that connective tissue but I
don't know it may be a natural
consequence of the damage being done
Frank thank you very much that was
military analyst Frank ledridge in
Oxford
thank you
Terry and here's a look at some other
developments in the Israel Hamas War uh
US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
plans to visit Israel on Friday for
talks blinkin also plans to make other
stops in the region Israel's military
says nine soldiers were killed in combat
operations in Gaza on Tuesday bringing
the total number of Israeli troops
killed since October 7th to
326 and Jordan's King abdull has called
on the US to support an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire that would allow
Aid convoys to flow into
Gaza